// ~ Overview ~ //

This exercise will familiarize you with some file operations.
You are not allowed to store the contents of the file in an array.
All operations must be performed on the file.

// ~ Learning Goals ~ //

(1) To learn how to open and close a file
(2) To learn how to use fgetc to obtain a character from a file
(3) To learn to go to a particular location of a file using
    fseek

// ~ Submitting Your Assignment ~ //

You must submit one zip file to blackboard. This zip file must
contain:

(1) answer05.c

You create the zip file using the following command.
 
> zip pe05.zip answer05.c 

// ~ Overview ~ //

This exercise will give you more practice with file operations.
It will also prepare you for the next programming assignment PA02.

Suppose you are responsible for mowing the grass on the paths in a corn maze
with two openings.  You will deal with the designing of driving directions
of your mower through the maze in the PA02.  In this exercise, you will 
write functions to:

(1)  Determine the dimensions of the maze. (2 points)
(2)  Find the column location of the openings. (2 points)
(3)  Count the number of locations with grass. (2 points)
(4)  Given the row and column coordinates, determine whether that
     location has corns or grass. (3 points)
(5)  Re-represent the maze in a single line in a new file (3 points).  

More details of the functions are provided below.

// ~ Input file format ~ //

In this exercise, we are concerned with only rectangular mazes,
which is made up of r rows and c columns.  For example, the
input file which contains the following lines describes
a maze with r = 7 and c = 9:

XXXXX XXX
X       X
XXXXX X X
X     X X
XXXXXXX X
X       X
XXXXX XXX

Note that in the input file, it would contain exactly 7 lines.
Moreover, there is a newline character at the end of each line.
We number the rows from top to bottom as row 0 through row 6,
and the columns from left to right as column 0 through column 8.
This maze is contained in the file sample.2.9x7.

You may assume that the file pointer contains a valid maze,
and that it has been successfully opened for read operations. 
However, you may not assume that the file location indicator
is at the beginning of a file.  Also, you should not close the given
file pointer in any of these five functions.  However, if you open
another file in your function, you are responsible for closing that
file.  We will use valgrind to make sure that you close all files
that you have opened.  Failure to close a file you have opened will
result in a 50% penalty.

// ~ Functions to be written ~ // 

The first function should determine the number of rows and the number
of columns of a given maze.  For example, we have 7 rows and 9 columns.

The second function should find the locations of the openings.
One opening is always in row 0 and the other opening is always in
row (r-1).  Therefore, all you have to do is find the column at which
the top opening occurs.  For this example, the opening is at column
5.

The third function counts the number of locations with grass (or
' ', SPACE).  You should include the openings in your count.
For this example, there are 25 locations with grass.

The fourth function has to determine whether at a location specified
by given row-column coordinates has grass or corns.
For example, at location (1, 1), we have grass.  At location (2, 2),
we have corns.  The given coordinates will always be valid.  You 
simply have to return the character ('X' or ' ') at that location.

The fifth function has to re-represent the maze in a single line
in a new file.  For this example, the file should look like this:

XXXXX XXXX       XXXXXX X XX     X XXXXXXXX XX       XXXXXX XXX

There should be exactly 7*9 = 63 characters in the file.  In other
words, there is no newline character at the end of the file. 
This one-line representation is in the file newsample.2.9x7.

These functions should be written in answer05.c.  A brief description
of these functions can be found in answer05.h.   

// ~ WARNINGS ~ //

You will have to write a main function so that you can test these
five functions.  However, you SHOULD write the main function in
a separate file called pe05.c.  If you include the main function 
in answer05.c, we will not be able to compile your answer05.c,
and you will get zero for this exercise.  

The main function that the instructor will write also 
resides in pe05.c.  The following gcc command will be used for
compilation:

gcc -Wall -Werror -Wshadow -g pe05.c answer05.c -o pe05

If you code does not compile, you will get zero for this exercise.

We will be calling these five functions in unpredictable fashion.
You cannot assume that the given file pointer will point at 
a particular location in the file.  If you do not set the file position
properly at the beginning of the function call, it is unlikely that you 
will pass any of our tests.  

Do not close the given file pointer in any of these functions.
However, you have to close files that you have opened.
